AEvoSwarm
===
#Introduction
We have observed that most behaviors in real live beings, both plants, animals, and humans alike, are developed over a period of time. These are heavily influenced with culture and inherited characteristic traits, which are in turn influenced by the same of their predecessors. Here, we extrapolate these observations to the idea that most modern rational schools of thought, such as military strategy, colonization, and even basic survival instincts, are honed over a multitude of generations, passing their knowledge and base character from generation to generation. With inherited genetic error, the newer generations imbibe the ability to form smarter and more informed decisions about the world around them. And by Darwin’s theory of “survival of the fittest”, we expect to see that the agents that fail to learn over the progress of time are quickly eliminated. Here, the core purpose of an agent is to persist its existence. So, the agents that fail to perform life actions to keep up to this purpose will eventually fade from existence.
#Objective
The objective of this project is to establish a framework through which, given the model of any system consisting of an environment and the underlying mechanisms governing the functionality of any individual agent, a simulation can conveniently and efficiently be executed so as to achieve a large real time factor which is crucial to the success of the simulation.
The second major objective is to study the types of emergent behaviour among the agents that comes about as a result of the evolutionary process and to design a system that encourages complex and advanced emergent behaviour without any explicit specification.
#Framework
In our work, we establish a framework through which a system consisting of a swarm of autonomous agents along with their environment are modelled and simulated. All such agents in this system undergo the same processes sharing the same underlying mechanism of functioning. This property of a shared underlying mechanism inspires the employment of a very scalable SIMD based approach to drive the underlying processes in a manner that can scale efficiently with the number of agents in the system.
#Scope - Ant World
For the purposes of this project, we have decided to limit the scope of the system to that of colonies of ants, and thereby follow the common English phrase, “a swarm of ants”. Here, the agent in consideration would be the ant. Each ant will be capable of performing exactly one of a finite number of actions vital to its survival, in a turn based manner including motion, consumption of food, attacking, and reproducing to create progeny with slight mutations in it’s own behaviour, where it’s behaviour is governed by a neural network. An ant requires energy to live in the world, and the act of living in itself costs energy. With a finite amount of energy in the world, the ant must discover ways to survive in the world around it. As generations progress, we expect to observe the ants to learn that forming colonies is the best way to collectively survive for more generations. This hypothesis has a biological significance as a result of the co-evolution of colonies and swarms of a given species including complex social interactions observed in nature.
We hope to observe new and exciting behaviors that emerge from the swarms over time, given a set of life functions and base requirements for survival.
#Applications of parallelism
The usage of parallel processing has major implications with respect to the success of this project as a result of the SIMD-based framework described above. Thus the processed of each ant can be simulated on a separate GPU thread. Moreover, since the receptive field of an ant will be restricted to only a few tiles around it, we can make the assumption that a given ant can function independently of the ants outside its receptive field. This will prevent the need for excessive synchronization among the threads. 
From generation of food on the map to handling the interactions of ants on the map, can also be parallelized to a great extent. Further, dividing the map into logical sectors, each of which can individually host multiple tiles upon which the ants can coexist provides scope for increasing the parallelization further.
